Hello and welcome to another episode of "No Such Thing" as a fish presents the World Cup of Facts.
This is the only World Cup podcast out there that makes absolutely no mention of football whatsoever.
Brought to you by the QI Elves in association with Visitingland.com.
My name is Dan Scheriber. I'm sitting here with James Harkin, Anarchizanski, and Andy Murray.
And today's match is France vs Honduras.
France.
Okay, I've found a nice number of silly-named places.
Oh, France.
I always love a silly-named place, so there are six places in France called Silly,
13 called Billy, and a place called Pratt, which is great.
There's also pissy, corny, punchy, misery, messy, and pussy.
French seven dwarfs.
Potatoes were illegal in France between 1748 and 1772.
What happened?
You weren't allowed to grow them.
People thought that they were very bad for your health.
And then a great hero chemist called Antoine Augustin Palmentier is the man who rehabilitated them
and said, "Actually, they are okay."
He said, "This is nonsense. This is fine. I think bits of them can be harmful,
but if you eat the actual potato bit, you're generally all right."
Oh, so they thought they were actually harmful.
It wasn't just yet atkins of the early 18th century, you were saying.
Oh, they thought they made you very ill.
And in the 16th century, France, women were forbidden for eating artichokes
because they were thought to be aphrodisiacs.
Wow, wow. A lot of food banning going on here.
Yeah.
It has a lot of good kings, France, Charles the mad.
He was one of the best, wasn't he?
Charles the sixth who ruled in the 15th century.
He thought he was made of glass and was terrified he was going to shatter.
I think he had iron rods installed in all of his clothes
to make sure that he didn't shatter.
And people weren't allowed to touch him.
Louis the 10th of France is the first tennis player whose name is known from history.
That's good, yeah.
Was he any good? What was his forte, topspin?
I have no idea.
Louis the 15th installed, some people would say, the first example of a lift
as in a lift that carries humans.
He installed a lift as flying chair.
Is that what he called it? The flying chair.
Why did we stop calling lift flying chairs?
We've stalled down the language that way.
Because we stopped sitting in them.
He installed his flying chair so that he could transport his mistress
who was two floors above him in the palace at Versailles,
up and down to visit him whenever she wanted to.
Surely it's much more obvious to install a massive lift than it's now and now.
You're so subtle.
And God you came this way, the servants will never know.
Above the servant who's doing the door in the lift.
And the bunch of people watching are going, what is this machine?
This is amazing.
He was great though. He also installed a flying table,
his tubla volant, which descended from the so he'd be having a big dinner in his dining room.
And then after one course, a hole would appear in the floor and the table would sink down into
the kitchen's below and the servants would load it up with all the food for their next course,
and then it would rise up again into his dining room.
That's proper showmanship.
You can see why you had a mistress now because that's a pretty impressive move.
It is. It was to stop the invasive filthy servants being seen at the dinner table.
Another Louis, Louis the 18th of France, supposedly could tell from smelling a rabbit stew,
which part of France the rabbit had been killed in.
Wow, but I think that might be hype because I just don't believe it.
In 1948, the French Olympic team sent their wine ahead a month in advance so that it had time to settle.
Very cool. Do you know where 85% of French people like to go on holiday?
Oh, wait. Is it nowhere?
They don't go anywhere.
Well, they go to France.
Yeah, yeah.
85% of French people go to France for their holidays.
They could come to England, which invented champagne.
Just thought I'd mention that.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, it's an English invention.
The 15th century France, one in every four days, was an official holiday of some sort.
And that still is the case today.
Yeah, and they would, they created their own saints, such as Saint Cockette,
the patron saint of talkative women, and Saint Jean-Bon, patron saint of ham.
Cool. That's amazing.
Everyone needs a patron saint of ham.
The guillotine was only outlawed in France in 1981, wasn't it?
So it was, and the last person to be guillotine in France was in 1977.
Wow.
And the last public one was in 1939, and Christopher Lee went.
The actor Christopher Lee from all the hammer horror films,
and he was there, he was 17 years old at the time,
and he saw France's last public guillotine.
Wow.
Pretty crazy.
We have the French Revolution to thank for public zoos.
I think it was the French Revolution that caused the creation of the first public zoo,
because the National Assembly ruled that all privately owned exotic animals had to be donated to
the Versailles estate, and so they set up a zoo.
But I also really love the giraffe called Zeraffa,
which was a gift to the French King Charles X from the Ottoman Viceroy,
and she became so popular this giraffe, and so famous that people in Paris started
dressing like giraffes, and having these giraffe hairstyles, and like giraffe skin,
imitation coats who are really fashionable, but yeah, giraffe hairstyles, they were in 19th century.
What, they also ate all the animals in the Paris Zoo in 1870, when there was a siege.
Yeah, someone else went Manet's cat.
Really during that siege, I think.
Wow.
Well, they had, they had the great cat massacre, didn't they?
Is it that in France?
That was in France in, oh, I don't know, do I remember?
In 1730s, France, it was a form of workers revolt, and basically a printer's apprentices
were annoyed that they were being treated worse off than their bosses' cats.
And so, and then being fed rubbish cat food and everything.
So at night, they imitated these howling cats that their bosses loved so much,
night after night, until the printer's bosses thought that the cats were like,
were satanic and evil, and all of that they all be killed.
And then they made the apprentices go out and massacre them all, and then they got hanged.
How do you, the hanged of the cats?
They put them on, so they killed them all, they then put them on trial, post mortem,
and then they hanged them, so they found guilty witchcraft.
They have to do it nine times for each cat.
Okay, that's the halftime whistle there, which means it's time for our halftime show.
And that is brought to you by visitinglin.com and comes in the form of a QI quiz.
And there are three questions today, James, the first question.
Simply, how many oaks are there in seven oaks?
Is there a clue in the question?
Is it a trick?
Who knows?
Could it be a trick?
That would be so unlike you.
Yes, a QI Elf with a trick question that you have thought it's, or maybe it's a double bluff?
Andy, your question.
What classic dad pastime has an entire museum in Merseyside devoted to it?
Solling asleep with a newspaper on your face?
Maybe, you'll have to wait and find out.
And Anna, what's yours?
My question is, which road in England has been used as a road since before Britain was an island?
Okay, so those are the three questions for today's quiz.
If you want to find out the answers to them,
we're going to be revealing them at the end of this episode.
But now it's time for the second half of the match, and it's Honduras.
Is the original banana republic,
as in the first ever phrase, banana republic, was used to describe Honduras,
because the US banana companies had so much influence there,
and 66% of the whole country's imports were bananas in 1913.
Speaking of fruit companies, you know, next and after the moon landings,
gave a moon bit of moonrock to every country in the world.
Honduras is one of those countries.
And the bit of moonrock mysteriously disappeared very soon after it had been given to the country.
And it was found in possession of, it was bought by a fruit seller in 1993.
Oh, I think, for quite a lot of money.
Wow. Wow, a fruit seller.
Fruit selling, yeah.
Presumably a rich, big business fruit seller, not a guy with a stall.
Yeah, not a guy who's just selling apples for ten cents a dollar.
Like, apple ten cents, banana fifteen cents, moonrock, two hundred thousand dollars.
I wasn't, I just came out for an apple, but actually.
I like this. This is something I read about these guys.
Is that they have a lot of fish falling out of the sky in Honduras.
A lot of fish falling out of the sky.
So much so that they have an annual festival now called the Honduran festival
of the rain of the fishes, where they celebrate the kind of anticipation
that is going to happen again, it happens so regularly now.
What, what, what, what, they don't know.
They don't know where the fish come from, but thousands of fish just fall out of the sky.
At the same time, at the same time, not at the same time every year,
but it's happened enough times such a common occurrence that.
And it's a thing that happens worldwide, where you know, things fall out of the sky.
I think it is, I think it is every year in Honduras, isn't it?
I think it's, it is the claim, although it was gone to be here,
went to be verified by National Geographic in the 70s.
And they said there were fish all over the streets,
but they still couldn't get any evidence of it falling from them, falling from the sky.
One of the most famous things about Honduras,
I know we're not supposed to mention football, was the football war.
Oh, okay.
Of course, Honduras versus El Salvador, they met in a soccer match in 1970,
a very tense match, and then some fighting broke out on their stands,
and eventually it turned into a war.
Lasted six days, and as usual, there was no side that could declare themselves the winner.
We were talking about bananas before and fruit.
There was, there's still a lot of bananas grown in Honduras,
but obviously, as we all know, bananas are in a bit of trouble with viruses and stuff,
and they might be dying out.
But there's some Honduran scientists who are trying to help with that,
and they sived 400 tons of bananas to find just 15 seeds for breeding a new type of...
Wow!
That is pretty good work as well.
Yeah, that's very exciting.
I've never sived bananas.
You need a big siv.
Yeah, imagine.
Well, I think that was just a metaphor.
I see.
Sorry, I was thinking a colander at least.
Like the idea of new bananas.
Yeah.
A new species of bananas, big names.
I should say there are loads of species of bananas,
but it's just that we only eat one of them.
Uh.
Why, why are there so many?
Then the others are unedible.
Plantains are a type of banana,
but there are other kinds of plantains that are more woody
and with lots of seeds, which are pretty unedible.
Oh, okay.
Okay.
Honduras was also the first spot of land where Columbus landed.
Columbus comes up in almost every one of these podcasts.
It was a busy boy.
He did a lot of trouble.
Yeah, it was Trujillo in Honduras.
That was the first bit of mainland America he landed on.
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
They should be called Colombia.
I think that would be quite confusing, though,
because there already is a Colombia.
I think I would have heard of a place called Colombia.
Oh, good point.
The Honduran flag.
This is just a tiny little nugget,
but the Honduran flag, you know,
has its three stripes and the two outer stripes of blue.
And that's to represent the ocean on either side of it.
So it's the Caribbean sea on one side
and the Pacific Ocean on the other.
It's nice.
That's cool.
Okay, there it is as the final whistle.
But before we find out who's one today's match,
we are going to quickly reveal the answers
to that visiting Linquiz that we did as our halftime show
and the answer to the first question, James.
How many oaks in seven oaks?
Yep.
Is it seven?
It's six.
It's eight.
Oh, we should have known.
They had seven, six of them blew down,
and then they planted another seven.
Okay, Andy, what you're a question?
Mine was about the classic dad pastime,
which has an entire Moesyside Museum,
and that is mowing the lawn.
There is a lawnmower museum there.
Okay, any question number three was yours, Anna?
Yeah, so I asked which road in England
has been used as a road since before Britain was an island,
and it is the rich way,
which I'm sure many of you know,
runs through a lot of these southern counties.
Okay, fantastic.
All right, well, those are the answers.
If you would like to win a prize, though,
you can actually head over to visitinglin.com
where there's going to be all sorts of QI goodies waiting there,
possibly a signed QI book from Anna Chazinsky,
which would be very exciting.
Now it's time to decide who has won today's match,
and we are going to go to Anna
to make that decision, France or Honduras.
Well, I always like to send wine ahead of me wherever I go
to make sure it arrives on time and it is sufficiently cool,
and so I'm going to go with France because they do it too.
Okay, so that's it from us.
We're going to be back again tomorrow with another match,
and that will be James.
That is Germany against Portugal.
Germany versus Portugal. Great.
If you want to ask us questions about this match,
though, you can get us on our Twitter handles.
I'm on @Sriberland, James.
@AgeShakesAndy.
@AndruHondaM.
@Quikipedia.
We're just the QI to defeat not mine, but I'll reply.
Okay, we'll see you guys again tomorrow.